thomas paine collected and edited moncure daniel conway volume 1774 1779 produced norman wolcott. xv. common sense, thomas paine, sacred texts.com table contents introduction the origin and design government general, with concise remarks the english constitution ii. monarchy and hereditary succession iii. thoughts the present state american affairs iv. the present ability america, with some miscellaneous reflexions common sense, thomas paine, sacred texts.com introduction perhaps the sentiments contained the following pages, are not yet sufficiently fashionable procure them general favor long habit not thinking thing wrong, gives superficial appearance being right, and raises first formidable outcry defence custom. but the tumult soon subsides. time makes more converts than reason. long and violent abuse power, generally the means calling the right question and the king england hath undertaken his own right, support the parliament what calls theirs, and the good people this country are grievously oppressed the combination, they have undoubted privilege inquire into the pretensions both, and equally reject the usurpations either. the following sheets, the author hath studiously avoided every thing which personal among ourselves. compliments well censure individuals make part thereof. the wise, and the worthy, need not the triumph pamphlet and those whose sentiments are injudicious, unfriendly, will cease themselves unless too much pains are bestowed upon their conversion. the cause america great measure the cause all mankind. many circumstances have, and will arise, which are not local, but universal, and through which the principles all lovers mankind are affected, and the event which, their affections are interested. the laying country desolate with fire and sword, declaring war against the natural rights all mankind, and extirpating the defenders thereof from the face the earth, the concern every man whom nature hath given the power feeling which class, regardless party censure, the author postscript preface the third edition the publication this new edition hath been delayed, with view taking notice any attempt refute the doctrine independance answer hath yet appeared, now presumed that none will, the time needful for getting such performance ready for the public being considerably past. who the author this production is, wholly unnecessary the public, the object for attention the doctrine itself, not the man. yet may not unnecessary say, that unconnected with any party, and under sort influence public private, but the influence reason and principle. philadelphia, february 14, 1776. common sense, thomas paine, sacred texts.com the origin and design government general, with concise remarks the english constitution some writers have confounded society with government, leave little distinction between them whereas they are not only different, but have different origins. society produced our wants, and government wickedness the former promotes our happiness positively uniting our affections, the latter negatively restraining our vices. the one encourages intercourse, the other creates distinctions. the first patron, the last punisher. society every state blessing, but government even its best state but necessary evil its worst state intolerable one for when suffer, are exposed the same miseries government, which might expect country without government, our calamity heightened reflecting that furnish the means which suffer. government, like dress, the badge lost innocence the palaces kings are built the ruins the bowers paradise. for were the impulses conscience clear, uniform, and irresistibly obeyed, man would need other lawgiver but that not being the case, finds necessary surrender part his property furnish means for the protection the rest and this induced the same prudence which every other case advises him out two evils choose the least. wherefore, security being the true design and end government, unanswerably follows that whatever form thereof appears most likely ensure us, with the least expence and greatest benefit, preferable all others. order gain clear and just idea the design and end government, let suppose small number persons settled some sequestered part the earth, unconnected with the rest, they will then represent the first peopling any country, the world. this state natural liberty, society will their first thought. thousand motives will excite them thereto, the strength one man unequal his wants, and his mind unfitted for perpetual solitude, that soon obliged seek assistance and relief another, who his turn requires the same. four five united would able raise tolerable dwelling the midst wilderness, but one man might labour out the common period life without accomplishing any thing when had felled his timber could not remove it, nor erect after was removed hunger the mean time would urge him from his work, and every different want call him different way. disease, nay even misfortune would death, for though neither might mortal, yet either would disable him from living, and reduce him state which might rather said perish than die. this necessity, like gravitating power, would soon form our newly arrived emigrants into society, the reciprocal blessing which, would supersede, and render the obligations law and government unnecessary while they remained perfectly just each other but nothing but heaven impregnable vice, will unavoidably happen, that proportion they surmount the first difficulties emigration, which bound them together common cause, they will begin relax their duty and attachment each other and this remissness, will point out the necessity, establishing some form government supply the defect moral virtue. some convenient tree will afford them state house, under the branches which, the whole colony may assemble deliberate public matters. more than probable that their first laws will have the title only regulations, and enforced other penalty than public disesteem. this first parliament every man, natural right, will have seat. but the colony increases, the public concerns will increase likewise, and the distance which the members may separated, will render too inconvenient for all them meet every occasion first, when their number was small, their habitations near, and the public concerns few and trifling. this will point out the convenience their consenting leave the legislative part managed select number chosen from the whole body, who are supposed have the same concerns stake which those have who appointed them, and who will act the same manner the whole body would act were they present. the colony continues increasing, will become necessary augment the number the representatives, and that the interest every part the colony may attended to, will found best divide the whole into convenient parts, each part sending its proper number and that the elected might never form themselves interest separate from the electors, prudence will point out the propriety having elections often because the elected might that means return and mix again with the general body the electors few months, their fidelity the public will secured the prudent reflexion not making rod for themselves. and this frequent interchange will establish common interest with every part the community, they will mutually and naturally support each other, and this depends the strength government, and the happiness the governed. here then the origin and rise government namely, mode rendered necessary the inability moral virtue govern the world here too the design and end government, viz. freedom and security. and however our eyes may dazzled with snow, our ears deceived sound however prejudice may warp our wills, interest darken our understanding, the simple voice nature and reason will say, right. draw idea the form government from principle nature, which art can overturn, viz. that the more simple any thing is, the less liable disordered, and the easier repaired when disordered and with this maxim view, offer few remarks the much boasted constitution england. that was noble for the dark and slavish times which was erected, granted. when the world was over run with tyranny the least remove therefrom was glorious rescue. but that imperfect, subject convulsions, and incapable producing what seems promise, easily demonstrated. absolute governments have this advantage with them, that they are simple the people suffer, they know the head from which their suffering springs, know likewise the remedy, and are not bewildered variety causes and cures. but the constitution england exceedingly complex, that the nation may suffer for years together without being able discover which part the fault lies, some will say one and some another, and every political physician will advise different medicine. know difficult get over local long standing prejudices, yet will suffer ourselves examine the component parts the english constitution, shall find them the base remains two ancient tyrannies, compounded with some new republican materials. first. the remains monarchical tyranny the person the king. secondly. the remains aristocratical tyranny the persons the peers. thirdly. the new republican materials, the persons the commons, whose virtue depends the freedom england. the two first, being hereditary, are independent the people wherefore constitutional sense they contribute nothing towards the freedom the state. say that the constitution england union three powers reciprocally checking each other, farcical, either the words have meaning, they are flat contradictions. say that the commons check upon the king, presupposes two things. first. that the king not trusted without being looked after, other words, that thirst for absolute power the natural disease monarchy. secondly. that the commons, being appointed for that purpose, are either wiser more worthy confidence than the crown. but the same constitution which gives the commons power check the king withholding the supplies, gives afterwards the king power check the commons, empowering him reject their other bills again supposes that the king wiser than those whom has already supposed wiser than him. mere absurdity! there something exceedingly ridiculous the composition monarchy first excludes man from the means information, yet empowers him act cases where the highest judgment required. the state king shuts him from the world, yet the business king requires him know thoroughly wherefore the different parts, unnaturally opposing and destroying each other, prove the whole character absurd and useless. some writers have explained the english constitution thus the king, say they, one, the people another the peers are house behalf the king the commons behalf the people but this hath all the distinctions house divided against itself and though the expressions pleasantly arranged, yet when examined they appear idle and ambiguous and will always happen, that the nicest construction that words are capable of, when applied the description some thing which either cannot exist, too incomprehensible within the compass description, will words sound only, and though they may amuse the ear, they cannot inform the mind, for this explanation includes previous question, viz. how came the king power which the people are afraid trust, and always obliged check? such power could not the gift wise people, neither can any power, which needs checking, from god yet the provision, which the constitution makes, supposes such power exist. but the provision unequal the task the means either cannot will not accomplish the end, and the whole affair felo for the greater weight will always carry the less, and all the wheels machine are put motion one, only remains know which power the constitution has the most weight, for that will govern and though the others, part them, may clog, or, the phrase is, check the rapidity its motion, yet long they cannot stop it, their endeavors will ineffectual the first moving power will last have its way, and what wants speed supplied time. that the crown this overbearing part the english constitution needs not mentioned, and that derives its whole consequence merely from being the giver places and pensions self evident wherefore, though have been wise enough shut and lock door against absolute monarchy, the same time have been foolish enough put the crown possession the key. the prejudice englishmen, favour their own government king, lords and commons, arises much more from national pride than reason. individuals are undoubtedly safer england than some other countries, but the will the king much the law the land britain france, with this difference, that instead proceeding directly from his mouth, handed the people under the more formidable shape act parliament. for the fate charles the first, hath only made kings more subtle not more just. wherefore, laying aside all national pride and prejudice favour modes and forms, the plain truth is, that wholly owing the constitution the people, and not the constitution the government that the crown not oppressive england turkey. inquiry into the constitutional errors the english form government this time highly necessary for are never proper condition doing justice others, while continue under the influence some leading partiality, neither are capable doing ourselves while remain fettered any obstinate prejudice. and man, who attached prostitute, unfitted choose judge wife, any prepossession favour rotten constitution government will disable from discerning good one. common sense, thomas paine, sacred texts.com ii. monarchy and hereditary succession mankind being originally equals the order creation, the equality could only destroyed some subsequent circumstance the distinctions rich, and poor, may great measure accounted for, and that without having recourse the harsh ill sounding names oppression and avarice. oppression often the consequence, but seldom never the means riches and though avarice will preserve man from being necessitously poor, generally makes him too timorous wealthy. but there another and greater distinction for which truly natural religious reason can assigned, and that is, the distinction men into kings and subjects. male and female are the distinctions nature, good and bad the distinctions heaven but how race men came into the world exalted above the rest, and distinguished like some new species, worth enquiring into, and whether they are the means happiness misery mankind. the early ages the world, according the scripture chronology, there were kings the consequence which was there were wars the pride kings which throw mankind into confusion. holland without king hath enjoyed more peace for this last century than any the monarchical governments europe. antiquity favors the same remark for the quiet and rural lives the first patriarchs hath happy something them, which vanishes away when come the history jewish royalty. government kings was first introduced into the world the heathens, from whom the children israel copied the custom. was the most prosperous invention the devil ever set foot for the promotion idolatry. the heathens paid divine honors their deceased kings, and the christian world hath improved the plan doing the same their living ones. how impious the title sacred majesty applied worm, who the midst his splendor crumbling into dust! the exalting one man greatly above the rest cannot justified the equal rights nature, neither can defended the authority scripture for the will the almighty, declared gideon and the prophet samuel, expressly disapproves government kings. all anti monarchical parts scripture have been very smoothly glossed over monarchical governments, but they undoubtedly merit the attention countries which have their governments yet form. render unto caesar the things which are caesar's the scripture doctrine courts, yet support monarchical government, for the jews that time were without king, and state vassalage the romans. near three thousand years passed away from the mosaic account the creation, till the jews under national delusion requested king. till then their form government was kind republic administered judge and the elders the tribes. kings they had none, and was held sinful acknowledge any being under that title but the lord hosts. and when man seriously reflects the idolatrous homage which paid the persons kings, need not wonder, that the almighty ever jealous his honor, should disapprove form government which impiously invades the prerogative heaven. monarchy ranked scripture one the sins the jews, for which curse reserve denounced against them. the history that transaction worth attending to. the children israel being oppressed the midianites, gideon marched against them with small army, and victory, thro' the divine interposition, decided his favour. the jews elate with success, and attributing the generalship gideon, proposed making him king, saying, rule thou over us, thou and thy son and thy son's son. here was temptation its fullest extent not kingdom only, but hereditary one, but gideon the piety his soul replied, will not rule over you, neither shall son rule over you. the lord shall rule over you. words need not more explicit gideon doth not decline the honor, but denieth their right give neither doth compliment them with invented declarations his thanks, but the positive stile prophet charges them with disaffection their proper sovereign, the king heaven. about one hundred and thirty years after this, they fell again into the same error. the hankering which the jews had for the idolatrous customs the heathens, something exceedingly unaccountable but was, that laying hold the misconduct samuel's two sons, who were entrusted with some secular concerns, they came abrupt and clamorous manner samuel, saying, behold thou art old, and thy sons walk not thy ways, now make king judge like all the other nations. and here cannot but observe that their motives were bad, viz. that they might like unto other nations, the heathens, whereas their true glory laid being much unlike them possible. but the thing displeased samuel when they said, give king judge and samuel prayed unto the lord, and the lord said unto samuel, hearken unto the voice the people all that they say unto thee, for they have not rejected thee, but they have rejected me, that should not reign over them. according all the works which they have done since the day that brought them out egypt, even unto this day wherewith they have forsaken and served other gods they also unto thee. now therefore hearken unto their voice, howbeit, protest solemnly unto them and shew them the manner the king that shall reign over them, not any particular king, but the general manner the kings the earth, whom israel was eagerly copying after. and notwithstanding the great distance time and difference manners, the character still fashion. and samuel told all the words the lord unto the people, that asked him king. and said, this shall the manner the king that shall reign over you will take your sons and appoint them for himself, for his chariots, and his horsemen, and some shall run before his chariots and will appoint him captains over thousands and captains over fifties, and will set them ear his ground and read his harvest, and make his instruments war, and instruments his chariots and will take your daughters confectionaries, and cooks and bakers and will take your fields and your olive yards, even the best them, and give them his servants and will take the tenth your feed, and your vineyards, and give them his officers and his servants and will take the tenth your men servants, and your maid servants, and your goodliest young men and your asses, and put them his work and will take the tenth your sheep, and shall his servants, and shall cry out that day because your king which shall have chosen, and the lord will not hear you that day. this accounts for the continuation monarchy neither the characters the few good kings which have lived since, either sanctify the title, blot out the sinfulness the origin the high encomium given david takes notice him officially king, but only man after god's own heart. nevertheless the people refused obey the voice samuel, and they said, nay, but will have king over us, that may like all the nations, and that our king may judge us, and out before us, and fight our battles. samuel continued reason with them, but purpose set before them their ingratitude, but all would not avail and seeing them fully bent their folly, cried out, will call unto the lord, and shall send thunder and rain that may perceive and see that your wickedness great which have done the sight the lord, asking you king. samuel called unto the lord, and the lord sent thunder and rain that day, and all the people greatly feared the lord and samuel. and all the people said unto samuel, pray for thy servants unto the lord thy god that die not, for have added unto our sins this evil, ask king. these portions scripture are direct and positive. they admit equivocal construction. that the almighty hath here entered his protest against monarchical government true, the scripture false. and man hath good reason believe that there much king craft, priest craft, withholding the scripture from the public popish countries. for monarchy every instance the popery government. the evil monarchy have added that hereditary succession and the first degradation and lessening ourselves, the second, claimed matter right, insult and imposition posterity. for all men being originally equals, one birth could have right set his own family perpetual preference all others for ever, and though himself might deserve some decent degree honors his cotemporaries, yet his descendants might far too unworthy inherit them. one the strongest natural proofs the folly hereditary right kings, is, that nature disapproves it, otherwise, she would not frequently turn into ridicule giving mankind ass for lion. secondly, man first could possess any other public honors than were bestowed upon him, the givers those honors could have power give away the right posterity, and though they might say choose you for our head, they could not, without manifest injustice their children, say that your children and your children's children shall reign over ours for ever. because such unwise, unjust, unnatural compact might the next succession put them under the government rogue fool. most wise men, their private sentiments, have ever treated hereditary right with contempt yet one those evils, which when once established not easily removed many submit from fear, others from superstition, and the more powerful part shares with the king the plunder the rest. this supposing the present race kings the world have had honorable origin whereas more than probable, that could take off the dark covering antiquity, and trace them their first rise, that should find the first them nothing better than the principal ruffian some restless gang, whose savage manners pre eminence subtility obtained him the title chief among plunderers and who increasing power, and extending his depredations, over awed the quiet and defenceless purchase their safety frequent contributions. yet his electors could have idea giving hereditary right his descendants, because such perpetual exclusion themselves was incompatible with the free and unrestrained principles they professed live by. wherefore, hereditary succession the early ages monarchy could not take place matter claim, but something casual complimental but few records were extant those days, and traditionary history stuffed with fables, was very easy, after the lapse few generations, trump some superstitious tale, conveniently timed, mahomet like, cram hereditary right down the throats the vulgar. perhaps the disorders which threatened, seemed threaten, the decease leader and the choice new one induced many first favor hereditary pretensions which means happened, hath happened since, that what first was submitted convenience, was afterwards claimed right. england, since the conquest, hath known some few good monarchs, but groaned beneath much larger number bad ones yet man his senses can say that their claim under william the conqueror very honorable one. french bastard landing with armed banditti, and establishing himself king england against the consent the natives, plain terms very paltry rascally original. certainly hath divinity it. however, needless spend much time exposing the folly hereditary right, there are any weak believe it, let them promiscuously worship the ass and lion, and welcome. shall neither copy their humility, nor disturb their devotion. yet should glad ask how they suppose kings came first? the question admits but three answers, viz. either lot, election, usurpation. the first king was taken lot, establishes precedent for the next, which excludes hereditary succession. saul was lot, yet the succession was not hereditary, neither does appear from that transaction there was any intention ever should. the first king any country was election, that likewise establishes precedent for the next for say, that the right all future generations taken away, the act the first electors, their choice not only king, but family kings for ever, hath parallel out scripture but the doctrine original sin, which supposes the free will all men lost adam and from such comparison, and will admit other, hereditary succession can derive glory. for adam all sinned, and the first electors all men obeyed the one all mankind were subjected satan, and the other sovereignty our innocence was lost the first, and our authority the last and both disable from reassuming some former state and privilege, unanswerably follows that original sin and hereditary succession are parallels. dishonorable rank! inglorious connexion! yet the most subtile sophist cannot produce juster simile. usurpation, man will hardy defend and that william the conqueror was usurper fact not contradicted. the plain truth is, that the antiquity english monarchy will not bear looking into. but not much the absurdity the evil hereditary succession which concerns mankind. did ensure race good and wise men would have the seal divine authority, but opens door the foolish, the wicked, and the improper, hath the nature oppression. men who look upon themselves born reign, and others obey, soon grow insolent selected from the rest mankind their minds are early poisoned importance and the world they act differs materially from the world large, that they have but little opportunity knowing its true interests, and when they succeed the government are frequently the most ignorant and unfit any throughout the dominions. another evil which attends hereditary succession is, that the throne subject possessed minor any age all which time the regency, acting under the cover king, have every opportunity and inducement betray their trust. the same national misfortune happens, when king worn out with age and infirmity, enters the last stage human weakness. both these cases the public becomes prey every miscreant, who can tamper successfully with the follies either age infancy. the most plausible plea, which hath ever been offered favour hereditary succession, is, that preserves nation from civil wars and were this true, would weighty whereas, the most barefaced falsity ever imposed upon mankind. the whole history england disowns the fact. thirty kings and two minors have reigned that distracted kingdom since the conquest, which time there have been less than eight civil wars and nineteen rebellions. wherefore instead making for peace, makes against it, and destroys the very foundation seems stand on. the contest for monarchy and succession, between the houses york and lancaster, laid england scene blood for many years. twelve pitched battles, besides skirmishes and sieges, were fought between henry and edward. twice was henry prisoner edward, who his turn was prisoner henry. and uncertain the fate war and the temper nation, when nothing but personal matters are the ground quarrel, that henry was taken triumph from prison palace, and edward obliged fly from palace foreign land yet, sudden transitions temper are seldom lasting, henry his turn was driven from the throne, and edward recalled succeed him. the parliament always following the strongest side. this contest began the reign henry the sixth, and was not entirely extinguished till henry the seventh, whom the families were united. including period years, viz. from 1422 1489. short, monarchy and succession have laid but the world blood and ashes. 'tis form government which the word god bears testimony against, and blood will attend it. inquire into the business king, shall find that some countries they have none and after sauntering away their lives without pleasure themselves advantage the nation, withdraw from the scene, and leave their successors tread the same idle round. absolute monarchies the whole weight business, civil and military, lies the king the children israel their request for king, urged this plea that may judge us, and out before and fight our battles. but countries where neither judge nor general, england, man would puzzled know what his business. the nearer any government approaches republic the less business there for king. somewhat difficult find proper name for the government england. sir william meredith calls republic but its present state unworthy the name, because the corrupt influence the crown, having all the places its disposal, hath effectually swallowed the power, and eaten out the virtue the house commons that the government england nearly monarchical that france spain. men fall out with names without understanding them. for the republican and not the monarchical part the constitution england which englishmen glory in, viz. the liberty choosing house commons from out their own body and easy see that when republican virtue fails, slavery ensues. why the constitution england sickly, but because monarchy hath poisoned the republic, the crown hath engrossed the commons? england king hath little more than make war and give away places which plain terms, impoverish the nation and set together the ears. pretty business indeed for man allowed eight hundred thousand sterling year for, and worshipped into the bargain! more worth one honest man society and the sight god, than all the crowned ruffians that ever lived. common sense, thomas paine, sacred texts.com iii. thoughts the present state american affairs the following pages offer nothing more than simple facts, plain arguments, and common sense and have other preliminaries settle with the reader, than that will divest himself prejudice and prepossession, and suffer his reason and his feelings determine for themselves that will put on, rather that will not put off, the true character man, and generously enlarge his views beyond the present day. volumes have been written the subject the struggle between england and america. men all ranks have embarked the controversy, from different motives, and with various designs but all have been ineffectual, and the period debate closed. arms, the last resource, decide the contest the appeal was the choice the king, and the continent hath accepted the challenge. hath been reported the late pelham that his being attacked the house commons, the score, that his measures were only temporary kind, replied, they will last time. should thought fatal and unmanly possess the colonies the present contest, the name ancestors will remembered future generations with detestation. the sun never shined cause greater worth. 'tis not the affair city, country, province, kingdom, but continent least one eighth part the habitable globe. 'tis not the concern day, year, age posterity are virtually involved the contest, and will more less affected, even the end time, the proceedings now. now the seed time continental union, faith and honor. the least fracture now will like name engraved with the point pin the tender rind young oak the wound will enlarge with the tree, and posterity read full grown characters. referring the matter from argument arms, new era for politics struck new method thinking hath arisen. all plans, proposals, prior the nineteenth april, the commencement hostilities, are like the almanacks the last year which, though proper then, are superceded and useless now. whatever was advanced the advocates either side the question then, terminated one and the same point, viz. union with great britain the only difference between the parties was the method effecting the one proposing force, the other friendship but hath far happened that the first hath failed, and the second hath withdrawn her influence. much hath been said the advantages reconciliation, which, like agreeable dream, hath passed away and left were, but right, that should examine the contrary side the argument, and inquire into some the many material injuries which these colonies sustain, and always will sustain, being connected with, and dependant great britain. examine that connexion and dependance, the principles nature and common sense, see what have trust to, separated, and what are expect, dependant. have heard asserted some, that america hath flourished under her former connexion with great britain, that the same connexion necessary towards her future happiness, and will always have the same effect. nothing can more fallacious than this kind argument. may well assert that because child has thrived upon milk, that never have meat, that the first twenty years our lives become precedent for the next twenty. but even this admitting more than true, for answer roundly, that america would have flourished much, and probably much more, had european power had any thing with her. the commerce, which she hath enriched herself are the necessaries life, and will always have market while eating the custom europe. but she has protected us, say some. that she hath engrossed true, and defended the continent our expence well her own admitted, and she would have defended turkey from the same motive, viz. the sake trade and dominion. alas, have been long led away ancient prejudices, and made large sacrifices superstition. have boasted the protection great britain, without considering, that her motive was interest not attachment that she did not protect from our enemies our account, but from her enemies her own account, from those who had quarrel with any other account, and who will always our enemies the same account. let britain wave her pretensions the continent, the continent throw off the dependance, and should peace with france and spain were they war with britain. the miseries hanover last war ought warn against connexions. hath lately been asserted parliament, that the colonies have relation each other but through the parent country, that pennsylvania and the jerseys, and for the rest, are sister colonies the way england this certainly very round about way proving relationship, but the nearest and only true way proving enemyship, may call it. france and spain never were, nor perhaps ever will our enemies americans, but our being the subjects great britain. but britain the parent country, say some. then the more shame upon her conduct. even brutes not devour their young, nor savages make war upon their families wherefore the assertion, true, turns her reproach but happens not true, only partly so, and the phrase parent mother country hath been jesuitically adopted the king and his parasites, with low papistical design gaining unfair bias the credulous weakness our minds. europe, and not england, the parent country america. this new world hath been the asylum for the persecuted lovers civil and religious liberty from every part europe. hither have they fled, not from the tender embraces the mother, but from the cruelty the monster and far true england, that the same tyranny which drove the first emigrants from home, pursues their descendants still. this extensive quarter the globe, forget the narrow limits three hundred and sixty miles and carry our friendship larger scale claim brotherhood with every european christian, and triumph the generosity the sentiment. pleasant observe what regular gradations surmount the force local prejudice, enlarge our acquaintance with the world. man born any town england divided into parishes, will naturally associate most with his fellow parishioners and distinguish him the name neighbour meet him but few miles from home, drops the narrow idea street, and salutes him the name townsman travel out the county, and meet him any other, forgets the minor divisions street and town, and calls him countryman county man but their foreign excursions they should associate france any other part europe, their local remembrance would enlarged into that englishmen. and just parity reasoning, all europeans meeting america, any other quarter the globe, are countrymen for england, holland, germany, sweden, when compared with the whole, stand the same places the larger scale, which the divisions street, town, and county the smaller ones distinctions too limited for continental minds. not one third the inhabitants, even this province, are english descent. wherefore reprobate the phrase parent mother country applied england only, being false, selfish, narrow and ungenerous. but admitting, that were all english descent, what does amount to? nothing. britain, being now open enemy, extinguishes every other name and title and say that reconciliation our duty, truly farcical. the first king england, the present line was frenchman, and half the peers england are descendants from the same country wherefore, the same method reasoning, england ought governed france. much hath been said the united strength britain and the colonies, that conjunction they might bid defiance the world. but this mere presumption the fate war uncertain, neither the expressions mean any thing for this continent would never suffer itself drained inhabitants, support the british arms either asia, africa, europe. besides, what have with setting the world defiance? our plan commerce, and that, well attended to, will secure the peace and friendship all europe because, the interest all europe have america free port. her trade will always protection, and her barrenness gold and silver secure her from invaders. challenge the warmest advocate for reconciliation, shew, single advantage that this continent can reap, being connected with great britain. repeat the challenge, not single advantage derived. our corn will fetch its price any market europe, and our imported goods must paid for buy them where will. but the injuries and disadvantages sustain that connection, are without number and our duty mankind large, well ourselves, instruct renounce the alliance because, any submission to, dependance great britain, tends directly involve this continent european wars and quarrels and sets variance with nations, who would otherwise seek our friendship, and against whom, have neither anger nor complaint. europe our market for trade, ought form partial connection with any part it. the true interest america steer clear european contentions, which she never can do, while her dependance britain, she made the make weight the scale british politics. europe too thickly planted with kingdoms long peace, and whenever war breaks out between england and any foreign power, the trade america goes ruin, because her connection with britain. the next war may not turn out like the last, and should not, the advocates for reconciliation now will wishing for separation then, because, neutrality that case, would safer convoy than man war. every thing that right natural pleads for separation. the blood the slain, the weeping voice nature cries, 'tis time part. even the distance which the almighty hath placed england and america, strong and natural proof, that the authority the one, over the other, was never the design heaven. the time likewise which the continent was discovered, adds weight the argument, and the manner which was peopled encreases the force it. the reformation was preceded the discovery america, the almighty graciously meant open sanctuary the persecuted future years, when home should afford neither friendship nor safety. the authority great britain over this continent, form government, which sooner later must have end and serious mind can draw true pleasure looking forward, under the painful and positive conviction, that what calls the present constitution merely temporary. parents, can have joy, knowing that this government not sufficiently lasting ensure any thing which may bequeath posterity and plain method argument, are running the next generation into debt, ought the work it, otherwise use them meanly and pitifully. order discover the line our duty rightly, should take our children our hand, and fix our station few years farther into life that eminence will present prospect, which few present fears and prejudices conceal from our sight. though would carefully avoid giving unnecessary offence, yet inclined believe, that all those who espouse the doctrine reconciliation, may included within the following descriptions. interested men, who are not trusted weak men, who cannot see prejudiced men, who will not see and certain set moderate men, who think better the european world than deserves and this last class, ill judged deliberation, will the cause more calamities this continent, than all the other three. the good fortune many live distant from the scene sorrow the evil not sufficiently brought their doors make them feel the precariousness with which all american property possessed. but let our imaginations transport for few moments boston, that seat wretchedness will teach wisdom, and instruct for ever renounce power whom can have trust. the inhabitants that unfortunate city, who but few months ago were ease and affluence, have now, other alternative than stay and starve, turn out beg. endangered the fire their friends they continue within the city, and plundered the soldiery they leave it. their present condition they are prisoners without the hope redemption, and general attack for their relief, they would exposed the fury both armies. men passive tempers look somewhat lightly over the offences britain, and, still hoping for the best, are apt call out, come, come, shall friends again, for all this. but examine the passions and feelings mankind, bring the doctrine reconciliation the touchstone nature, and then tell me, whether you can hereafter love, honour, and faithfully serve the power that hath carried fire and sword into your land? you cannot all these, then are you only deceiving yourselves, and your delay bringing ruin upon posterity. your future connection with britain, whom you can neither love nor honour, will forced and unnatural, and being formed only the plan present convenience, will little time fall into relapse more wretched than the first. but you say, you can still pass the violations over, then ask, hath your house been burnt? hath your property been destroyed before your face? are your wife and children destitute bed lie on, bread live on? have you lost parent child their hands, and yourself the ruined and wretched survivor? you have not, then are you not judge those who have. but you have, and still can shake hands with the murderers, then you are unworthy the name husband, father, friend, lover, and whatever may your rank title life, you have the heart coward, and the spirit sycophant. this not inflaming exaggerating matters, but trying them those feelings and affections which nature justifies, and without which, should incapable discharging the social duties life, enjoying the felicities it. mean not exhibit horror for the purpose provoking revenge, but awaken from fatal and unmanly slumbers, that may pursue determinately some fixed object. not the power britain europe conquer america, she not conquer herself delay and timidity. the present winter worth age rightly employed, but lost neglected, the whole continent will partake the misfortune and there punishment which that man will not deserve, who, what, where will, that may the means sacrificing season precious and useful. repugnant reason, the universal order things all examples from former ages, suppose, that this continent can longer remain subject any external power. the most sanguine britain does not think so. the utmost stretch human wisdom cannot, this time, compass plan short separation, which can promise the continent even year's security. reconciliation now falacious dream. nature hath deserted the connexion, and art cannot supply her place. for, milton wisely expresses, never can true reconcilement grow where wounds deadly hate have pierced deep. every quiet method for peace hath been ineffectual. our prayers have been rejected with disdain and only tended convince us, that nothing flatters vanity, confirms obstinacy kings more than repeated petitioning and noting hath contributed more than that very measure make the kings europe absolute witness denmark and sweden. wherefore, since nothing but blows will do, for god's sake, let come final separation, and not leave the next generation cutting throats, under the violated unmeaning names parent and child. say, they will never attempt again idle and visionary, thought the repeal the stamp act, yet year two undeceived well may suppose that nations, which have been once defeated, will never renew the quarrel. government matters, not the power britain this continent justice the business will soon too weighty, and intricate, managed with any tolerable degree convenience, power, distant from us, and very ignorant for they cannot conquer us, they cannot govern us. always running three four thousand miles with tale petition, waiting four five months for answer, which when obtained requires five six more explain in, will few years looked upon folly and childishness there was time when was proper, and there proper time for cease. small islands not capable protecting themselves, are the proper objects for kingdoms take under their care but there something very absurd, supposing continent perpetually governed island. instance hath nature made the satellite larger than its primary planet, and england and america, with respect each other, reverses the common order nature, evident they belong different systems england europe, america itself. not induced motives pride, party, resentment espouse the doctrine separation and independance clearly, positively, and conscientiously persuaded that the true interest this continent that every thing short that mere patchwork, that can afford lasting felicity, that leaving the sword our children, and shrinking back time, when, little more, little farther, would have rendered this continent the glory the earth. britain hath not manifested the least inclination towards compromise, may assured that terms can obtained worthy the acceptance the continent, any ways equal the expense blood and treasure have been already put to. the object, contended for, ought always bear some just proportion the expense. the removal north, the whole detestable junto, matter unworthy the millions have expended. temporary stoppage trade, was inconvenience, which would have sufficiently ballanced the repeal all the acts complained of, had such repeals been obtained but the whole continent must take arms, every man must soldier, scarcely worth our while fight against contemptible ministry only. dearly, dearly, pay for the repeal the acts, that all fight for for just estimation, great folly pay bunker hill price for law, for land. have always considered the independancy this continent, event, which sooner later must arrive, from the late rapid progress the continent maturity, the event could not far off. wherefore, the breaking out hostilities, was not worth the while have disputed matter, which time would have finally redressed, unless meant earnest otherwise, like wasting estate suit law, regulate the trespasses tenant, whose lease just expiring. man was warmer wisher for reconciliation than myself, before the fatal nineteenth april 1775, but the moment the event that day was made known, rejected the hardened, sullen tempered pharaoh england for ever and disdain the wretch, that with the pretended title father his people, can unfeelingly hear their slaughter, and composedly sleep with their blood upon his soul. but admitting that matters were now made up, what would the event? answer, the ruin the continent. and that for several reasons. first. the powers governing still remaining the hands the king, will have negative over the whole legislation this continent. and hath shewn himself such inveterate enemy liberty, and discovered such thirst for arbitrary power he, not, proper man say these colonies, you shall make laws but what please. and there any inhabitant america ignorant, not know, that according what called the present constitution, that this continent can make laws but what the king gives leave and there any man unwise, not see, that will suffer law made here, but such suit his purpose. may effectually enslaved the want laws america, submitting laws made for england. after matters are made can there any doubt, but the whole power the crown will exerted, keep this continent low and humble possible? instead going forward shall backward, perpetually quarrelling ridiculously petitioning. are already greater than the king wishes be, and will not hereafter endeavour make less? bring the matter one point. the power who jealous our prosperity, proper power govern us? whoever says this question independant, for independancy means more, than, whether shall make our own laws, or, whether the king, the greatest enemy this continent hath, can have, shall tell us, there shall laws but such like. but the king you will say has negative england the people there can make laws without his consent. point right and good order, there something very ridiculous, that youth twenty one shall say several millions people, older and wiser than himself, forbid this that act yours law. but this place decline this sort reply, though will never cease expose the absurdity it, and only answer, that england being the king's residence, and america not so, make quite another case. the king's negative here ten times more dangerous and fatal than can england, for there will scarcely refuse his consent bill for putting england into strong state defence possible, and america would never suffer such bill passed. america only secondary object the system british politics, england consults the good this country, farther than answers her own purpose. wherefore, her own interest leads her suppress the growth ours every case which doth not promote her advantage, the least interferes with it. pretty state should soon under such second hand government, considering what has happened! men not change from enemies friends the alteration name and order shew that reconciliation now dangerous doctrine, affirm, that would policy the king this time, repeal the acts for the sake reinstating himself the government the provinces order that may accomplish craft and subtility, the long run, what cannot force and violence the short one. reconciliation and ruin are nearly related. secondly. that even the best terms, which can expect obtain, can amount more than temporary expedient, kind government guardianship, which can last longer than till the colonies come age, the general face and state things, the interim, will unsettled and unpromising. emigrants property will not choose come country whose form government hangs but thread, and who every day tottering the brink commotion and disturbance and numbers the present inhabitants would lay hold the interval, dispose their effects, and quit the continent. but the most powerful all arguments, is, that nothing but independance, continental form government, can keep the peace the continent and preserve inviolate from civil wars. dread the event reconciliation with britain now, more than probable, that will followed revolt somewhere other, the consequences which may far more fatal than all the malice britain. thousands are already ruined british barbarity those men have other feelings than who have nothing suffered. all they now possess liberty, what they before enjoyed sacrificed its service, and having nothing more lose, they disdain submission. besides, the general temper the colonies, towards british government, will like that youth, who nearly out his time they will care very little about her. and government which cannot preserve the peace, government all, and that case pay our money for nothing and pray what that britain can do, whose power will wholly paper, should civil tumult break out the very day after reconciliation? have heard some men say, many whom believe spoke without thinking, that they dreaded independance, fearing that would produce civil wars. but seldom that our first thoughts are truly correct, and that the case here for there are ten times more dread from patched connexion than from independance. make the sufferers case own, and protest, that were driven from house and home, property destroyed, and circumstances ruined, that man, sensible injuries, could never relish the doctrine reconciliation, consider myself bound thereby. the colonies have manifested such spirit good order and obedience continental government, sufficient make every reasonable person easy and happy that head. man can assign the least pretence for his fears, any other grounds, that such are truly childish and ridiculous, viz. that one colony will striving for superiority over another. where there are distinctions there can superiority, perfect equality affords temptation. the republics europe are all peace. holland and swisserland are without wars, foreign domestic monarchical governments, true, are never long rest the crown itself temptation enterprizing ruffians home and that degree pride and insolence ever attendant regal authority, swells into rupture with foreign powers, instances, where republican government, being formed more natural principles, would negotiate the mistake. there any true cause fear respecting independance, because plan yet laid down. men not see their way out wherefore, opening into that business, offer the following hints the same time modestly affirming, that have other opinion them myself, than that they may the means giving rise something better. could the straggling thoughts individuals collected, they would frequently form materials for wise and able men improve into useful matter. let the assemblies annual, with president only. the representation more equal. their business wholly domestic, and subject the authority continental congress. let each colony divided into six, eight, ten, convenient districts, each district send proper number delegates congress, that each colony send least thirty. the whole number congress will least 390. each congress sit and choose president the following method. when the delegates are met, let colony taken from the whole thirteen colonies lot, after which, let the whole congress choose president from out the delegates that province. the next congress, let colony taken lot from twelve only, omitting that colony from which the president was taken the former congress, and proceeding till the whole thirteen shall have had their proper rotation. and order that nothing may pass into law but what satisfactorily just, not less than three fifths the congress called majority. that will promote discord, under government equally formed this, would have joined lucifer his revolt. but there peculiar delicacy, from whom, what manner, this business must first arise, and seems most agreeable and consistent that should come from some intermediate body between the governed and the governors, that is, between the congress and the people, let continental conference held, the following manner, and for the following purpose. committee twenty six members congress, viz. two for each colony. two members for each house assembly, provincial convention and five representatives the people large, chosen the capital city town each province, for, and behalf the whole province, many qualified voters shall think proper attend from all parts the province for that purpose or, more convenient, the representatives may chosen two three the most populous parts thereof. this conference, thus assembled, will united, the two grand principles business, knowledge and power. the members congress, assemblies, conventions, having had experience national concerns, will able and useful counsellors, and the whole, being impowered the people, will have truly legal authority. the conferring members being met, let their business frame continental charter, charter the united colonies fixing the number and manner choosing members congress, members assembly, with their date sitting, and drawing the line business and jurisdiction between them securing freedom and property all men, and above all things, the free exercise religion, according the dictates conscience with such other matter necessary for charter contain. immediately after which, the said conference dissolve, and the bodies which shall chosen comformable the said charter, the legislators and governors this continent for the time being whose peace and happiness, may god preserve, amen. should any body men hereafter delegated for this some similar purpose, offer them the following extracts from that wise observer governments dragonetti. the science says the politician consists fixing the true point happiness and freedom. those men would deserve the gratitude ages, who should discover mode government that contained the greatest sum individual happiness, with the least national expense. dragonetti virtue and rewards. but where says some the king america? i'll tell you friend, reigns above, and doth not make havoc mankind like the royal brute britain. yet that may not appear defective even earthly honors, let day solemnly set apart for proclaiming the charter let brought forth placed the divine law, the word god let crown placed thereon, which the world may know, that far approve monarchy, that america the law king. for absolute governments the king law, free countries the law ought king and there ought other. but lest any ill use should afterwards arise, let the crown the conclusion the ceremony demolished, and scattered among the people whose right is. government our own our natural right and when man seriously reflects the precariousness human affairs, will become convinced, that infinitely wiser and safer, form constitution our own cool deliberate manner, while have our power, than trust such interesting event time and chance. omit now, some, massanello may hereafter arise, who laying hold popular disquietudes, may collect together the desperate and discontented, and assuming themselves the powers government, may sweep away the liberties the continent like deluge. should the government america return again into the hands britain, the tottering situation things, will temptation for some desperate adventurer try his fortune and such case, what relief can britain give? ere she could hear the news, the fatal business might done and ourselves suffering like the wretched britons under the oppression the conqueror. that oppose independance now, know not what are opening door eternal tyranny, keeping vacant the seat government. there are thousands, and tens thousands, who would think glorious expel from the continent, that barbarous and hellish power, which hath stirred the indians and negroes destroy us, the cruelty hath double guilt, dealing brutally us, and treacherously them. talk friendship with those whom our reason forbids have faith, and our affections wounded through thousand pores instruct detest, madness and folly. every day wears out the little remains kindred between and them, and can there any reason hope, that the relationship expires, the affection will increase, that shall agree better, when have ten times more and greater concerns quarrel over than ever? that tell harmony and reconciliation, can restore the time that past? can give prostitution its former innocence? neither can reconcile britain and america. the last cord now broken, the people england are presenting addresses against us. there are injuries which nature cannot forgive she would cease nature she did. well can the lover forgive the ravisher his mistress, the continent forgive the murders britain. the almighty hath implanted these unextinguishable feelings for good and wise purposes. they are the guardians his image our hearts. they distinguish from the herd common animals. the social compact would dissolve, and justice extirpated from the earth, have only casual existence were callous the touches affection. the robber, and the murderer, would often escape unpunished, did not the injuries which our tempers sustain, provoke into justice. that love mankind! that dare oppose, not only the tyranny, but the tyrant, stand forth! every spot the old world overrun with oppression. freedom hath been hunted round the globe. asia, and africa, have long expelled her. europe regards her like stranger, and england hath given her warning depart. receive the fugitive, and prepare time asylum for mankind. note thomas anello, otherwise massanello, fisherman naples, who after spiriting his countrymen the public market place, against the oppression the spaniards, whom the place was then subject, prompted them revolt, and the space day became king. common sense, thomas paine, sacred texts.com iv. the present ability america, with some miscellaneous reflexions have never met with man, either england america, who hath not confessed his opinion, that separation between the countries, would take place one time other and there instance, which have shewn less judgment, than endeavouring describe, what call, the ripeness fitness the continent for independance. all men allow the measure, and vary only their opinion the time, let us, order remove mistakes, take general survey things, and endeavour, possible, find out the very time. but need not far, the inquiry ceases once, for, the time hath found us. the general concurrence, the glorious union all things prove the fact. not numbers, but unity, that our great strength lies yet our present numbers are sufficient repel the force all the world. the continent hath, this time, the largest body armed and disciplined men any power under heaven and just arrived that pitch strength, which, single colony able support itself, and the whole, when united, can accomplish the matter, and either more, or, less than this, might fatal its effects. our land force already sufficient, and naval affairs, cannot insensible, that britain would never suffer american man war built, while the continent remained her hands. wherefore, should forwarder hundred years hence that branch, than are now but the truth is, should less so, because the timber the country every day diminishing, and that, which will remain last, will far off and difficult procure. were the continent crowded with inhabitants, her sufferings under the present circumstances would intolerable. the more sea port towns had, the more should have both defend and loose. our present numbers are happily proportioned our wants, that man need idle. the diminution trade affords army, and the necessities army create new trade. debts have none and whatever may contract this account will serve glorious memento our virtue. can but leave posterity with settled form government, independant constitution it's own, the purchase any price will cheap. but expend millions for the sake getting few vile acts repealed, and routing the present ministry only, unworthy the charge, and using posterity with the utmost cruelty because leaving them the great work do, and debt upon their backs, from which, they derive advantage. such thought unworthy man honor, and the true characteristic narrow heart and pedling politician. the debt may contract doth not deserve our regard the work but accomplished. nation ought without debt. national debt national bond and when bears interest, case grievance. britain oppressed with debt upwards one hundred and forty millions sterling, for which she pays upwards four millions interest. and compensation for her debt, she has large navy america without debt, and without navy yet for the twentieth part the english national debt, could have navy large again. the navy england not worth, this time, more than three millions and half sterling. the first and second editions this pamphlet were published without the following calculations, which are now given proof that the above estimation the navy just one. see entic's naval history, intro. page 56. the charge building ship each rate, and furnishing her with masts, yards, sails and rigging, together with proportion eight months boatswain's and carpenter's sea stores, calculated mr. burchett, secretary the navy. for ship 100 guns 35,553 29,886 23,638 17,785 14,197 10,606 7,558 5,846 3,710 and from hence easy sum the value, cost rather, the whole british navy, which the year 1757, when was its greatest glory consisted the following ships and guns. ships. guns. cost one. cost all. 100 35,553 213,318 29,886 358,632 23,638 283,656 17,785 746,755 14,197 496,895 10,606 424,240 7,558 340,110 3,710 215,180 2,000 170,000 sloops, bombs, and fireships, one with another, cost 3,266,786 remains for guns 233,214 total. 3,500,000 country the globe happily situated, internally capable raising fleet america. tar, timber, iron, and cordage are her natural produce. need abroad for nothing. whereas the dutch, who make large profits hiring out their ships war the spaniards and portuguese, are obliged import most the materials they use. ought view the building fleet article commerce, being the natural manufactory this country. the best money can lay out. navy when finished worth more than cost. and that nice point national policy, which commerce and protection are united. let build want them not, can sell and that means replace our paper currency with ready gold and silver. point manning fleet, people general run into great errors not necessary that one fourth part should sailor. the terrible privateer, captain death, stood the hottest engagement any ship last war, yet had not twenty sailors board, though her complement men was upwards two hundred. few able and social sailors will soon instruct sufficient number active landmen the common work ship. wherefore, never can more capable begin maritime matters than now, while our timber standing, our fisheries blocked up, and our sailors and shipwrights out employ. men war, seventy and eighty guns were built forty years ago new england, and why not the same now? ship building america's greatest pride, and which, she will time excel the whole world. the great empires the east are mostly inland, and consequently excluded from the possibility rivalling her. africa state barbarism and power europe, hath either such extent coast, such internal supply materials. where nature hath given the one, she has withheld the other america only hath she been liberal both. the vast empire russia almost shut out from the sea wherefore, her boundless forests, her tar, iron, and cordage are only articles commerce. point safety, ought without fleet? are not the little people now, which were sixty years ago that time might have trusted our property the streets, fields rather and slept securely without locks bolts our doors windows. the case now altered, and our methods defence, ought improve with our increase property. common pirate, twelve months ago, might have come the delaware, and laid the city philadelphia under instant contribution, for what sum pleased and the same might have happened other places. nay, any daring fellow, brig fourteen sixteen guns, might have robbed the whole continent, and carried off half million money. these are circumstances which demand our attention, and point out the necessity naval protection. some, perhaps, will say, that after have made with britain, she will protect us. can unwise mean, that she shall keep navy our harbours for that purpose? common sense will tell us, that the power which hath endeavoured subdue us, all others, the most improper defend us. conquest may effected under the pretence friendship and ourselves, after long and brave resistance, last cheated into slavery. and her ships are not admitted into our harbours, would ask, how she protect us? navy three four thousand miles off can little use, and sudden emergencies, none all. wherefore, must hereafter protect ourselves, why not for ourselves? why for another? the english list ships war, long and formidable, but not tenth part them are any time fit for service, numbers them not being yet their names are pompously continued the list, only plank left the ship and not fifth part, such are fit for service, can spared any one station one time. the east, and west indies, mediterranean, africa, and other parts over which britain extends her claim, make large demands upon her navy. from mixture prejudice and inattention, have contracted false notion respecting the navy england, and have talked should have the whole encounter once, and for that reason, supposed, that must have one large which not being instantly practicable, have been made use set disguised tories discourage our beginning thereon. nothing can farther from truth than this for america had only twentieth part the naval force britain, she would far over match for her because, neither have, nor claim any foreign dominion, our whole force would employed our own coast, where should, the long run, have two one the advantage those who had three four thousand miles sail over, before they could attack us, and the same distance return order refit and recruit. and although britain her fleet, hath check over our trade europe, have large one over her trade the west indies, which, laying the neighbourhood the continent, entirely its mercy. some method might fallen keep naval force time peace, should not judge necessary support constant navy. premiums were given merchants, build and employ their service, ships mounted with twenty, thirty, forty, fifty guns, fifty sixty those ships, with few guard ships constant duty, would keep sufficient navy, and that without burdening ourselves with the evil loudly complained england, suffering their fleet, time peace lie rotting the docks. unite the sinews commerce and defence sound policy for when our strength and our riches, play into each other's hand, need fear external enemy. almost every article defence abound. hemp flourishes even rankness, that need not want cordage. our iron superior that other countries. our small arms equal any the world. cannons can cast pleasure. saltpetre and gunpowder are every day producing. our knowledge hourly improving. resolution our inherent character, and courage hath never yet forsaken us. wherefore, what that want? why that hesitate? from britain can expect nothing but ruin. she once admitted the government america again, this continent will not worth living in. jealousies will always arising insurrections will constantly happening and who will forth quell them? who will venture his life reduce his own countrymen foreign obedience? the difference between pennsylvania and connecticut, respecting some unlocated lands, shews the insignificance british government, and fully proves, that nothing but continental authority can regulate continental matters. another reason why the present time preferable all others, is, that the fewer our numbers are, the more land there yet unoccupied, which instead being lavished the king his worthless dependents, may hereafter applied, not only the discharge the present debt, but the constant support government. nation under heaven hath such advantage this. the infant state the colonies, called, far from being against, argument favor independance. are sufficiently numerous, and were more so, might less united. matter worthy observation, that the more country peopled, the smaller their armies are. military numbers, the ancients far exceeded the moderns and the reason evident, for trade being the consequence population, men become too much absorbed thereby attend any thing else. commerce diminishes the spirit, both patriotism and military defence. and history sufficiently informs us, that the bravest achievements were always accomplished the non age nation. with the increase commerce, england hath lost its spirit. the city london, notwithstanding its numbers, submits continued insults with the patience coward. the more men have lose, the less willing are they venture. the rich are general slaves fear, and submit courtly power with the trembling duplicity spaniel. youth the seed time good habits, well nations individuals. might difficult, not impossible, form the continent into one government half century hence. the vast variety interests, occasioned increase trade and population, would create confusion. colony would against colony. each being able might scorn each other's assistance and while the proud and foolish gloried their little distinctions, the wise would lament, that the union had not been formed before. wherefore, the present time the true time for establishing it. the intimacy which contracted infancy, and the friendship which formed misfortune, are, all others, the most lasting and unalterable. our present union marked with both these characters are young, and have been distressed but our concord hath withstood our troubles, and fixes memorable area for posterity glory in. the present time, likewise, that peculiar time, which never happens nation but once, viz. the time forming itself into government. most nations have let slip the opportunity, and that means have been compelled receive laws from their conquerors, instead making laws for themselves. first, they had king, and then form government whereas, the articles charter government, should formed first, and men delegated execute them afterwards but from the errors other nations, let learn wisdom, and lay hold the present opportunity begin government the right end. when william the conqueror subdued england, gave them law the point the sword and until consent, that the seat government, america, legally and authoritatively occupied, shall danger having filled some fortunate ruffian, who may treat the same manner, and then, where will our freedom? where our property? religion, hold the indispensible duty all government, protect all conscientious professors thereof, and know other business which government hath therewith. let man throw aside that narrowness soul, that selfishness principle, which the niggards all professions are unwilling part with, and will once delivered his fears that head. suspicion the companion mean souls, and the bane all good society. for myself, fully and conscientiously believe, that the will the almighty, that there should diversity religious opinions among affords larger field for our christian kindness. were all one way thinking, our religious dispositions would want matter for probation and this liberal principle, look the various denominations among us, like children the same family, differing only, what called, their christian names. page threw out few thoughts the propriety continental charter, and this place, take the liberty rementioning the subject, observing, that charter understood bond solemn obligation, which the whole enters into, support the right every separate part, whether religion, personal freedom, property. firm bargain and right reckoning make long friends. former page likewise mentioned the necessity large and equal representation and there political matter which more deserves our attention. small number electors, small number representatives, are equally dangerous. but the number the representatives not only small, but unequal, the danger increased. instance this, mention the following when the associators petition was before the house assembly pennsylvania twenty eight members only were present, all the bucks county members, being eight, voted against it, and had seven the chester members done the same, this whole province had been governed two counties only, and this danger always exposed to. the unwarrantable stretch likewise, which that house made their last sitting, gain undue authority over the delegates that province, ought warn the people large, how they trust power out their own hands. set instructions for the delegates were put together, which point sense and business would have dishonored schoolboy, and after being approved few, very few without doors, were carried into the house, and there passed behalf the whole colony whereas, did the whole colony know, with what ill will that house hath entered some necessary public measures, they would not hesitate moment think them unworthy such trust. immediate necessity makes many things convenient, which continued would grow into oppressions. expedience and right are different things. when the calamities america required consultation, there was method ready, that time proper, appoint persons from the several houses assembly for that purpose and the wisdom with which they have proceeded hath preserved this continent from ruin. but more than probable that shall never without congress, every well wisher good order, must own, that the mode for choosing members that body, deserves consideration. and put question those, who make study mankind, whether representation and election not too great power for one and the same body men possess? when are planning for posterity, ought remember, that virtue not hereditary. from our enemies that often gain excellent maxims, and are frequently surprised into reason their mistakes. mr. cornwall treated the petition the new york assembly with contempt, because that house, said, consisted but twenty six members, which trifling number, argued, could not with decency put for the whole. thank him for his involuntary honesty. conclude, however strange may appear some, however unwilling they may think so, matters not, but many strong and striking reasons may given, shew, that nothing can settle our affairs expeditiously open and determined declaration for independance. some which are, first the custom nations, when any two are war, for some other powers, not engaged the quarrel, step mediators, and bring about the preliminaries peace but while america calls herself the subject great britain, power, however well disposed she may be, can offer her mediation. wherefore, our present state may quarrel for ever. secondly unreasonable suppose, that france spain will give any kind assistance, mean only, make use that assistance for the purpose repairing the breach, and strengthening the connection between britain and america because, those powers would sufferers the consequences. thirdly while profess ourselves the subjects britain, must, the eye foreign nations, considered rebels. the precedent somewhat dangerous their peace, for men arms under the name subjects we, the spot, can solve the paradox but unite resistance and subjection, requires idea much too refined for the common understanding. fourthly were manifesto published, and despatched foreign courts, setting forth the miseries have endured, and the peaceable methods have ineffectually used for redress declaring, the same time, that not being able, any longer, live happily safely under the cruel disposition the british court, had been driven the necessity breaking off all connections with her the same time, assuring all such courts our peacable disposition towards them, and our desire entering into trade with them such memorial would produce more good effects this continent, than ship were freighted with petitions britain. under our present denomination british subjects, can neither received nor heard abroad the custom all courts against us, and will so, until, independance, take rank with other nations. these proceedings may first appear strange and difficult but, like all other steps which have already passed over, will little time become familiar and agreeable and, until independance declared, the continent will feel itself like man who continues putting off some unpleasant business from day day, yet knows must done, hates set about it, wishes over, and continually haunted with the thoughts its necessity. note those who would fully understand what great consequence large and equal representation state, should read burgh's political disquisitions. common sense, thomas paine, sacred texts.com appendix since the publication the first edition this pamphlet, rather, the same day which came out, the king's speech made its appearance this city. had the spirit prophecy directed the birth this production, could not have brought forth, more seasonable juncture, more necessary time. the bloody mindedness the one, shew the necessity pursuing the doctrine the other. men read way revenge. and the speech instead terrifying, prepared way for the manly principles independance. ceremony, and even, silence, from whatever motive they may arise, have hurtful tendency, when they give the least degree countenance base and wicked performances wherefore, this maxim admitted, naturally follows, that the king's speech, being piece finished villany, deserved, and still deserves, general execration both the congress and the people. yet, the domestic tranquillity nation, depends greatly, the chastity what may properly called national manners, often better, pass some things over silent disdain, than make use such new methods dislike, might introduce the least innovation, that guardian our peace and safety. and, perhaps, chiefly owing this prudent delicacy, that the king's speech, hath not, before now, suffered public execution. the speech may called one, nothing better than wilful audacious libel against the truth, the common good, and the existence mankind and formal and pompous method offering human sacrifices the pride tyrants. but this general massacre mankind, one the privileges, and the certain consequence kings for nature knows them not, they know not her, and although they are beings our own creating, they know not us, and are become the gods their creators. the speech hath one good quality, which is, that not calculated deceive, neither can we, even would, deceived it. brutality and tyranny appear the face it. leaves loss and every line convinces, even the moment reading, that he, who hunts the woods for prey, the naked and untutored indian, less savage than the king britain. sir john dalrymple, the putative father whining jesuitical piece, fallaciously called, the address the people england the inhabitants america, hath, perhaps, from vain supposition, that the people here were frightened the pomp and description king, given, the real character the present one but, says this writer, you are inclined pay compliments administration, which not complain of, very unfair you withhold them from that prince, whose nod alone they were permitted any thing. this toryism with witness! here idolatry even without mask and who can calmly hear, and digest such doctrine, hath forfeited his claim rationality apostate from the order manhood and ought considered one, who hath, not only given the proper dignity man, but sunk himself beneath the rank animals, and contemptibly crawls through the world like worm. however, matters very little now, what the king england either says does hath wickedly broken through every moral and human obligation, trampled nature and conscience beneath his feet and steady and constitutional spirit insolence and cruelty, procured for himself universal hatred. now the interest america provide for herself. she hath already large and young family, whom more her duty take care of, than granting away her property, support power who become reproach the names men and christians ye, whose office watch over the morals nation, whatsoever sect denomination are of, well ye, who, are more immediately the guardians the public liberty, wish preserve your native country uncontaminated european corruption, must secret wish separation but leaving the moral part private reflection, shall chiefly confine farther remarks the following heads. first, that the interest america separated from britain. secondly, which the easiest and most practicable plan, reconciliation independance? with some occasional remarks. support the first, could, judged proper, produce the opinion some the ablest and most experienced men this continent and whose sentiments, that head, are not yet publicly known. reality self evident position for nation state foreign dependance, limited its commerce, and cramped and fettered its legislative powers, can ever arrive any material eminence. america doth not yet know what opulence and although the progress which she hath made stands unparalleled the history other nations, but childhood, compared with what she would capable arriving at, had she, she ought have, the legislative powers her own hands. england is, this time, proudly coveting what would her good, were she accomplish and the continent hesitating matter, which will her final ruin neglected. the commerce and not the conquest america, which england benefited, and that would great measure continue, were the countries independant each other france and spain because many articles, neither can better market. but the independance this country britain any other, which now the main and only object worthy contention, and which, like all other truths discovered necessity, will appear clearer and stronger every day. first, because will come that one time other. secondly, because, the longer delayed the harder will accomplish. have frequently amused myself both public and private companies, with silently remarking, the specious errors those who speak without reflecting. and among the many which have heard, the following seems most general, viz. that had this rupture happened forty fifty years hence, instead now, the continent would have been more able have shaken off the dependance. which reply, that our military ability this time, arises from the experience gained the last war, and which forty fifty years time, would have been totally extinct. the continent, would not, that time, have had general, even military officer left and we, those who may succeed us, would have been ignorant martial matters the ancient indians and this single position, closely attended to, will unanswerably prove, that the present time preferable all others. the argument turns thus the conclusion the last war, had experience, but wanted numbers and forty fifty years hence, should have numbers, without experience wherefore, the proper point time, must some particular point between the two extremes, which sufficiency the former remains, and proper increase the latter obtained and that point time the present time. the reader will pardon this digression, does not properly come under the head first set out with, and which again return the following position, viz. should affairs patched with britain, and she remain the governing and sovereign power america, shall deprive ourselves the very means sinking the debt have, may contract. the value the back lands which some the provinces are clandestinely deprived of, the unjust extension the limits canada, valued only five pounds sterling per hundred acres, amount upwards twenty five millions, pennsylvania currency and the quit rents one penny sterling per acre, two millions yearly. the sale those lands that the debt may sunk, without burthen any, and the quit rent reserved thereon, will always lessen, and time, will wholly support the yearly expence government. matters not how long the debt paying, that the lands when sold applied the discharge it, and for the execution which, the congress for the time being, will the continental trustees. proceed now the second head, viz. which the easiest and most practicable plan, reconciliation independance with some occasional remarks. who takes nature for his guide not easily beaten out his argument, and that ground, answer generally that independance being single simple line, contained within ourselves and reconciliation, matter exceedingly perplexed and complicated, and which, treacherous capricious court interfere, gives the answer without doubt. the present state america truly alarming every man who capable reflexion. without law, without government, without any other mode power than what founded on, and granted courtesy. held together unexampled concurrence sentiment, which, nevertheless subject change, and which, every secret enemy endeavouring dissolve. our present condition, is, legislation without law wisdom without plan constitution without name and, what strangely astonishing, perfect independance contending for dependance. the instance without precedent the case never existed before and who can tell what may the event? the property man secure the present unbraced system things. the mind the multitude left random, and seeing fixed object before them, they pursue such fancy opinion starts. nothing criminal there such thing treason wherefore, every one thinks himself liberty act pleases. the tories dared not have assembled offensively, had they known that their lives, that act, were forfeited the laws the state. line distinction should drawn, between, english soldiers taken battle, and inhabitants america taken arms. the first are prisoners, but the latter traitors. the one forfeits his liberty, the other his head. notwithstanding our wisdom, there visible feebleness some our proceedings which gives encouragement dissentions. the continental belt too loosely buckled. and something not done time, will too late any thing, and shall fall into state, which, neither reconciliation nor independance will practicable. the king and his worthless adherents are got their old game dividing the continent, and there are not wanting among us, printers, who will busy spreading specious falsehoods. the artful and hypocritical letter which appeared few months ago two the new york papers, and likewise two others, evidence that there are men who want either judgment honesty. easy getting into holes and corners and talking reconciliation but such men seriously consider, how difficult the task is, and how dangerous may prove, should the continent divide thereon. they take within their view, all the various orders men whose situation and circumstances, well their own, are considered therein. they put themselves the place the sufferer whose all already gone, and the soldier, who hath quitted all for the defence his country. their ill judged moderation suited their own private situations only, regardless others, the event will convince them, that they are reckoning without their host. put us, say some, the footing were sixty three which answer, the request not now the power britain comply with, neither will she propose but were, and even should granted, ask, reasonable question, what means such corrupt and faithless court kept its engagements? another parliament, nay, even the present, may hereafter repeal the obligation, the pretence, its being violently obtained, unwisely granted and that case, where our redress? going law with nations cannon are the barristers crowns and the sword, not justice, but war, decides the suit. the footing sixty three, not sufficient, that the laws only put the same state, but, that our circumstances, likewise, put the same state our burnt and destroyed towns repaired built up, our private losses made good, our public debts discharged otherwise, shall millions worse than were that enviable period. such request, had been complied with year ago, would have won the heart and soul the continent but now too late, the rubicon passed. besides, the taking arms, merely enforce the repeal pecuniary law, seems unwarrantable the divine law, and repugnant human feelings, the taking arms enforce obedience thereto. the object, either side, doth not justify the means for the lives men are too valuable cast away such trifles. the violence which done and threatened our persons the destruction our property armed force the invasion our country fire and sword, which conscientiously qualifies the use arms and the instant, which such mode defence became necessary, all subjection britain ought have ceased and the independancy america, should have been considered, dating its era from, and published by, the first musket that was fired against her. this line line consistency neither drawn caprice, nor extended ambition but produced chain events, which the colonies were not the authors. shall conclude these remarks, with the following timely and well intended hints. ought reflect, that there are three different ways, which independancy may hereafter effected and that one those three, will one day other, the fate america, viz. the legal voice the people congress military power mob may not always happen that our soldiers are citizens, and the multitude body reasonable men virtue, have already remarked, not hereditary, neither perpetual. should independancy brought about the first those means, have every opportunity and every encouragement before us, form the noblest purest constitution the face the earth. have our power begin the world over again. situation, similar the present, hath not happened since the days noah until now. the birthday new world hand, and race men, perhaps numerous all europe contains, are receive their portion freedom from the event few months. the reflexion awful and this point view, how trifling, how ridiculous, the little, paltry cavellings, few weak interested men appear, when weighed against the business world. should neglect the present favorable and inviting period, and independance hereafter effected any other means, must charge the consequence ourselves, those rather, whose narrow and prejudiced souls, are habitually opposing the measure, without either inquiring reflecting. there are reasons given support independance, which men should rather privately think of, than publicly told of. ought not now debating whether shall independant not, but, anxious accomplish firm, secure, and honorable basis, and uneasy rather that not yet began upon. every day convinces its necessity. even the tories should, all men, the most solicitous promote for, the appointment committees first, protected them from popular rage, so, wise and well established form government, will the only certain means continuing securely them. wherefore, they have not virtue enough whigs, they ought have prudence enough wish for independance. short, independance the only bond that can tye and keep together. shall then see our object, and our ears will legally shut against the schemes intriguing, well, cruel enemy. shall then too, proper footing, treat with britain for there reason conclude, that the pride that court, will less hurt treating with the american states for terms peace, than with those, whom she denominates, rebellious subjects, for terms accommodation. our delaying that encourages her hope for conquest, and our backwardness tends only prolong the war. have, without any good effect therefrom, withheld our trade obtain redress our grievances, let now try the alternative, independantly redressing them ourselves, and then offering open the trade. the mercantile and reasonable part england, will still with because, peace with trade, preferable war without it. and this offer not accepted, other courts may applied to. the complete sayings jesus the king james version christ's own words without interpolations and divested the context, excepting the brief portions the gospel narratives retained establish the place, time, occasion, question the reply which the master's own answer assembled and arranged sequence arthur hinds introduction norman vincent peale, d.d. williamsburg, mass., d.h. pierpont and company scanned, proofed and formatted sacred texts.com, december 2007 john bruno hare. this text the public domain the because its copyright was not renewed timely fashion required law the time. the complete sayings jesus, arthur hinds, sacred texts.com reminder the publisher the number words the new testament 181,253. only 36,450 these 181,253 words are the words christ barely over per cent. considered verses, the new testament has 7,959 verses, which but 1,599 are sayings christ. these relatively few sayings jesus have not place apart, but run uneven distribution through the four gospels and each the four gospels matthew, mark, luke, john the sayings are unevenly distributed through the narrative. often saying recorded, may be, matthew, paraphrased, even duplicated, one more the other three biographers, none whom seems have intended either chronological harmony with the others, even sustained sequence his own. accordingly, only the devoted reader the new testament, the habitual reader, sufficiently the delver have become familiar with christ's sayings really familiar familiar with the sayings not only severally set down the four evangels, but also one message, one gospel proclaiming the saviour's great objective. relatively few persons christian country are habitual readers the sayings christ, that may because relatively few persons are delvers. the publisher convinced that this book provides the means for the nonreaders the new testament become familiar with jesus the christ, his sayings, and his great purpose, without delving indeed without effort, engaging the story here recorded glowing short story. the complete sayings jesus, arthur hinds, sacred texts.com the compiler's purpose the shelves the libraries and the bookstores bend beneath the tomes the sayings, the bare sayings, all the other great men but one will not find library bookstore, any published book, the complete sayings jesus, the bare sayings simple sequence, christ's own words, separate. this compiler's purpose has been enable any reader, whether confirmed christian inquiring pagan, frankly detached, get him book christ's own words, divested, runs the title page, the context, excepting those brief portions the gospel narratives retained establish the place, the time, occasion, question the reply which the master's own answer. many reader, arrived finis the new testament itself, has but hazy picture christ his daily walks circuit preacher everywhere within walking distance has but sketchy outline the times and occasions many biographers! matthew, mark, luke, john, paul each essaying not biography such, not the record the teacher's sayings such, but intent upon launching each his own conception christ's mission. christ's sayings complete, brought into sequence times and occasions, but lifted out contexts alien the present purpose, may prove glowing story new not only the non reader, but new even the whilom new testament readers who have not yet discerned the continuities. devoted readers will not diverted from the great text. perhaps other readers the casual new testament reader and the non reader after enjoying these pages may venture the greater enjoyment the attentive perusal all the gospels and all the epistles, perhaps all the new testament. the complete sayings jesus, arthur hinds, sacred texts.com this introduction appeared later editions this book. was unable find any evidence separate copyright. jbh. introduction norman vincent peale, d.d. one the high spiritual moments which have enriched life came the day read this book one sitting. was moving and unforgettable experience which had the feeling actually being the presence jesus. produced strange compelling identification with the sights, sounds and atmosphere those times and the lord's presence was profoundly realistic. when finished the book came back present reality with start. this effect was created the fact that here have every recorded word spoken jesus and the sequence which uttered them. this little volume offers amazing reading experience, one which the reader follows the master through the villages and about the lake and into the cities, hearing his priceless comments individuals and his sermons vast multitudes. the reading all his words one time and chronological order produces effect quite different from that which attained reading isolated scripture passages which his spoken words appear, profoundly helpful these are. the impact upon mind and heart, his whole massage, affects one profoundly. this book gives panoramic concept the thoughts and teachings jesus. and grand and noble the impression made upon the mind that the reader has enhanced understanding the purpose this the greatest life ever lived. for mental stimulation, heartfelt comfort, and soul satisfaction, the complete sayings jesus unique. shall always grateful that lunsford yandell made this little volume known years ago. explained that friend his, businessman, arthur hinds, sensed the importance bringing the words jesus together chronological form that the full sweep and completeness the immortal message might more effectively felt and comprehended. these laymen had keen consciousness the ineffable power the words jesus and, desire relate them more widely busy modern people, arranged them this convenient and readable form. for many years this book has been made available through the literature sales organization the marble collegiate church. the thousands who have read the book, through our recommendation, have reported that has brought great spiritual blessing them. commend this new edition all who desire the creative touch christ upon their lives. the complete sayings jesus, arthur hinds, sacred texts.com lineage jesus lineage jesus born bethlehem from narratives matthew and luke matthew 17. the book the generation jesus christ, the son david, the son abraham abraham begat isaac and isaac begat and jesse begat david the king and david the king begat solomon and solomon begat and josias begat jechonias and his brethren, about the time they were carried away babylon and jechonias begat and jacob begat joseph the husband mary, whom was born jesus who called christ. all the generations from abraham david are fourteen generations and from david until the carrying away into babylon are fourteen generations and from the carrying away into babylon unto christ are fourteen generations. luke 21. came pass those days, that there went out decree from cesar augustus, that all the world should taxed. and all went taxed, every one into his own city. joseph also went from galilee, out the city nazareth, into judea, unto the city david which called bethlehem taxed with mary his espoused wife, being great with child. was, that, while they were there, the days were accomplished that she should delivered. she brought forth her firstborn son, and wrapped him swaddling clothes, and laid him manger because there was room for them the inn. dec. b.c. there were the same country shepherds abiding the field, keeping watch over their flock night. and, lo, the angel the lord came upon them, and said, behold, bring you good tidings great joy, which shall all people. for unto you born this day the city david savior, which christ the lord. shall find the babe wrapped swaddling clothes, lying manger. and they came with haste, and found mary, and joseph, and the babe lying manger. when eight days were accomplished for the circumcising the child, his name was called jesus, which was named the angel before was conceived the womb. footnotes like this are, all the words which are italicized the king james text are set italics throughout this book also. the punctuations also are, throughout, the punctuations the king james text. happens that dates from the birth christ did not begin cast until centuries after christ's day. the monk said then responsible for the calculations made mistake. the consensus informed opinion now that the birth jesus set back four years. accordingly the boy jesus was five years old december what would have been the first year the anno domini calendar that calendar had been started the day his birth that is, five years and one week old new year's day, a.d. the complete sayings jesus, arthur hinds, sacred texts.com the escape from herod again galilee nazareth from matthew's narrative b.c. matthew 23. now when jesus was born bethlehem judea the days herod the king, behold, there came wise men from the east jerusalem, saying, where that born king the jews? for have seen his star the east, and are come worship him. when herod the king had heard these things, was troubled. and when had gathered the chief priests and scribes the people together, demanded them where christ should born. they said, bethlehem judea. then herod privily called the wise men, and inquired them what time the star appeared. sent them bethlehem, and said, search diligently for the child and when have found him, bring word, that may come and worship him also. the wise men departed and, lo, the star, which they saw the east, went before them, till stood over where the child was. they rejoiced with exceeding great joy. and when they saw the child with mary his mother, they worshipped him and they opened their treasures, and presented unto him gifts, gold, and frankincense, and myrrh. warned god dream that they should not return herod, the wise men departed into their own country another way. when the wise men were departed, behold, the angel the lord appeareth joseph dream, saying, arise, take the child and his mother, and flee into egypt and thou there until bring thee word for herod will seek the child destroy him. joseph arose, took the child and his mother night, and departed into egypt and was there until the death herod. when herod was dead, behold, angel the lord appeareth dream joseph egypt, saying, arise, and take the child and his mother, and into the land israel. but joseph heard that archelaus did reign judea the room his father herod was afraid thither turned aside into the parts galilee and came and dwelt nazareth. the complete sayings jesus, arthur hinds, sacred texts.com iii the boy jesus twelve, visits jerusalem tarries behind talks temple with the doctors speaks his mother his first recorded words a.d. age 12. nazareth. jerusalem luke 52. the child grew, and waxed strong spirit, filled with wisdom and the grace god was upon him. now his parents went jerusalem every year the feast the passover. when jesus was twelve years old, they went jerusalem after the custom the feast. they fulfilled the days, and they returned, the child jesus tarried behind jerusalem and joseph and his mother knew not it. they, supposing him have been the company, went day's journey and they sought him among their kinsfolk and acquaintance. when they found him not, they turned back jerusalem, seeking him. after three days they found him the temple, sitting the midst the doctors, both hearing them, and asking questions. all that heard him were astonished his understanding and answers. his mother said unto him, son, why hast thou thus dealt with us? behold, thy father and have sought thee sorrowing. jesus said unto them, how that sought me? wist not that must about father's business? and they understood not. went down with them nazareth, and was subject into them but his mother kept all these sayings her heart. and jesus increased wisdom and stature, and favor with god and man. footnotes note that the curtain drops here, were, the drama jesus the age twelve, not rise again till the age thirty. the complete sayings jesus, arthur hinds, sacred texts.com jesus thirty baptized john a.d. 27. age judea jordan. matthew mark luke 23. those days came john the baptist, preaching the wilderness judea, saying, repent for the kingdom heaven hand. this that was spoken the prophet esaias, saying, the voice one crying the wilderness, prepare the way the lord, make his paths straight. john had his raiment camel's hair, and leathern girdle about his loins and his meat was locusts and wild honey. then went out him jerusalem, and all judea, and all the region round about jordan, and were baptized him jordan, confessing their sins. then cometh jesus from galilee jordan unto john, baptized him. but john forbade him, saying, have need baptized thee, and comest thou me? jesus answering said unto him, suffer now for thus becometh fulfill all righteousness. then john suffered him. and jesus, when was baptized, went straightway out the water and praying, lo, the heavens were opened unto him, and saw the spirit god descending bodily shape like dove, and lighting upon him and voice from heaven, saying, this beloved son, whom well pleased. and jesus himself began about thirty years age. the complete sayings jesus, arthur hinds, sacred texts.com christ's long fast the wilderness satan's futile wiles a.d. 27. age 30. judea. matthew mark luke 13. then was jesus led the spirit into the wilderness tempted the devil. was there the wilderness forty days, and was with the wild beasts. those days did eat nothing. and when had fasted forty days and forty nights, was hungered. the tempter came said, thou the son god, command that these stones made bread. but jesus answered, written, man shall not live bread alone, but every word that proceedeth out the mouth god. then, jerusalem, the holy city, pinnacle the temple, the devil saith unto jesus, thou the son god, cast thyself down from hence for written, shall give his angels charge concerning thee, keep thee and their hands they shall bear thee up, lest any time thou dash they foot against stone. jesus answering said, written again, thou shalt not tempt the lord thy god. again, exceeding high mountain, the devil sheweth him, moment time, all the kingdoms the world, and the glory them, and saith unto jesus, all these things will give thee all this power, and the glory them thou wilt fall down and worship me, all shall thine. and jesus answered, get thee behind me, satan get thee hence for written, thou shalt worship the lord thy god, and him only shalt thou serve. then the devil leaveth him. the complete sayings jesus, arthur hinds, sacred texts.com john answers the priests behold the lamb god jesus hails andrew, simon, philip, and nathanael a.d. age 30. bethabara john, 51. john, when the jews sent priests and levites from jerusalem ask him, who art thou? confessed, not the christ. the voice one crying the wilderness, make straight the way the lord. they asked him, why baptizest thou then, thou not that christ? john answered, baptize with water but there standeth one among you, whom know not is, who coming after preferred before me, whose shoe's latchet not worthy unloose. these things were done bethabara beyond jordan, where john was baptizing. the next day after, john stood, and two his disciples and looking upon jesus walked, saith, behold the lamb god, which taketh away the sin the world. the two disciples heard john speak, and they followed jesus. saw them following, and saith, what seek ye? they answered, rabbi where dwellest thou? jesus saith, come and see. they came and saw where dwelt, and they abode with him that day. one the two was andrew, simon peter's brother. first findeth simon, and saith unto him, have found the messias. andrew brought simon jesus. and when jesus beheld simon, said, thou art simon the son jona thou shalt called cephas. cephas is, interpretation, stone. the day following, jesus would forth into galilee, and findeth philip was bethsaida, the city andrew and simon peter. and jesus saith unto philip, follow me. philip findeth nathanael, and saith unto him, have found him whom moses did write, jesus nazareth, the son joseph. and nathanael said, can there any good thing come out nazareth? philip said, come and see. jesus saw nathanael coming, and saith him, behold israelite indeed, whom guile! nathanael saith, whence knowest thou me? jesus answered, before that philip called thee, when thou wart under the fig tree, saw thee. nathanael answered, master, thou art the son god thou art the king israel. jesus said, because said unto thee, saw thee under the fig tree, believest thou? thou shalt see greater things than these. verily, verily, say unto you, hereafter shall see heaven open, and the angels god ascending and descending upon the son man. footnotes which is, being interpreted, the christ. the revised version has which interpretation, peter. both words, peter and cephas, have the meaning, rock, stone. the complete sayings jesus, arthur hinds, sacred texts.com vii jesus' mother and the water changed wine drives the moneymakers from the temple temple the body a.d. 27. age 30. cana. jerusalem. john 21. the third day, there was marriage cana galilee. both jesus was called, and his disciples, the marriage and the mother jesus was there. when they wanted wine, his mother saith unto jesus, they have wine. jesus saith, woman, what have with thee? mine hour not yet come. his mother saith unto the servants, whatsoever saith, it. there were set there six waterpots stone containing two three firkins apiece. jesus saith, fill the waterpots with water. they filled them the brim. and saith, draw out now, and bear unto the governor the feast. and they bare it. the ruler the feast tasted. the water was made wine. after this went capernaum, jesus, and his mother, and his brethren, and his disciples and they continued there not many days. the jews' passover was hand jesus went jerusalem. found the temple those that sold oxen and sheep and doves and the changers money sitting and when had made scourge small cords, drove them all out the temple, and the sheep, and the oxen and poured out the changers' money, and overthrew the tables and said unto them that sold doves, take these things hence, make not father's house house merchandise. then the jews said unto jesus, what sign shewest thou unto us, seeing that thou doest these things? answered, destroy this temple, and three days will raise up. then said the jews, forty and six years was this temple building, and wilt thou rear three days? but jesus spake the temple his body. footnotes john 16. matthew and mark tell similar encounter symbolism for other examples turn xxxvi and xlv this book. the complete sayings jesus, arthur hinds, sacred texts.com viii nighttime visit nicodemus christ enlightens him april, a.d. age 30. jerusalem. john 21. man the pharisees, named nicodemus, ruler the jews, came jesus night, and said unto him, master, know that thou art teacher come from god for man can these miracles that thou doest, except god with him. jesus answered, verily, verily, say unto thee, except man born again, cannot see the kingdom god. nicodemus saith unto him, how can man born when old? jesus answered, verily, verily, say unto thee, except man born water and the spirit, cannot enter into the kingdom god. that which born the flesh flesh and that which born the spirit spirit. marvel not that said unto thee, must born again. the wind bloweth where listeth, and thou hearest the sound thereof, but canst not tell whence cometh, and whither goeth every one that born the spirit. nicodemus said, how can these things be? jesus answered, art thou master israel, and knowest not these things? verily, verily, say unto thee, speak that know, and testify that have seen and receive not our witness. have told you earthly things, and believe not, how shall believe, tell you heavenly things? and man hath ascended heaven, but that came down from heaven, even the son man which heaven. and moses lifted the serpent the wilderness, even must the son man lifted that whosoever believeth him should not perish, but have eternal life. for god loved the world, that gave his only begotten son, that whosoever believeth him should not perish, but have everlasting life. for god sent not his son into the world condemn the world but that the world through him might saved. that believeth him not condemned but that believeth not condemned already, because hath not believed the name the only begotten son god. and this the condemnation, that light has come into the world, and men loved darkness rather than light, because their deeds were evil. for every one that doeth evil hateth the light, neither cometh the light, lest his deeds should reproved. but that doeth truth cometh the light, that his deeds may made manifest, that they are wrought god. footnotes nicodemus appears again the story the complete sayings jesus, arthur hinds, sacred texts.com john extols jesus the woman the well one soweth, and another reapeth a.d. 27. age 30. samaria sychar. john 40. after these things came jesus and his disciples into the land judea. john was baptizing enon near salim. for john was not yet cast into prison. there arose question between some john's disciples and the jews. they came unto john, saying, rabbi, that was with thee beyond jordan, whom thou barest witness, behold, the same baptizeth, and all men come him. john said, yourselves bear witness, that said, not the christ, but that sent before him. when jesus knew how the pharisees had heard that made and baptized more disciples than john left judea, and departed again into galilee. and must needs through samaria. then cometh city samaria called sychar, near the parcel ground that jacob gave his son joseph. now jacob's well was there. jesus being wearied with his journey, sat the well. there cometh woman samaria draw water jesus saith unto her, give drink. the woman saith, how that thou, being jew, asketh drink me, woman samaria? for the jews have dealings with the samarians. jesus answered, thou knewest the gift god, and who that saith thee, give drink thou wouldest have asked him, and would have given thee living water. the woman saith, sir, thou hast nothing draw with, and the well deep from whence then hast thou that living water? art thou greater than our father jacob, which gave the well, and drank thereof himself, and his children, and his cattle? jesus said, whosoever drinketh this water shall thirst again but whosoever drinketh the water that shall give him shall never thirst but the water that shall give him shall him well water springing into everlasting life. the woman answered, sir, give this water, that thirst not, neither come hither draw. jesus saith, go, call thy husband, and come hither. the woman answered, have husband. jesus said, thou hast well said, have husband for thou hast had five husbands and whom thou now hast not thy husband that saidst thou truly. the woman saith, sir, perceive that thou art prophet. our fathers worshipped this mountain and say, that jerusalem the place where men ought worship. jesus saith, woman, believe me, the hour cometh, when shall neither this mountain, nor yet jerusalem, worship the father. worship know not what know what worship for salvation the jews. but the hour cometh, and now is, when the true worshippers shall worship the father spirit and truth for the father seeketh such worship him. god spirit and they that worship him must worship him spirit and truth. the woman saith, know that messias cometh, which called christ when come, will tell all things. jesus saith, that speak unto thee he. the woman went her way into the city, and saith the men, come, see man, which told all things that ever did not this the christ? the mean while his disciples prayed him, saying, master, eat. but said, have meat eat that know not of. therefore said the disciples one another, hath any man brought him aught eat? jesus saith unto them, meat the will him that sent me, and finish his work. say not ye, there are yet four months, and then cometh harvest? behold, say unto you, lift your eyes, and look the fields for they are white already harvest. and that reapeth receiveth wages, and gathereth fruit unto life eternal that both that soweth and that reapeth may rejoice together. and herein that saying true, one soweth, and another reapeth. sent you reap that whereon bestowed labor other men labored, and are entered into their labor. many the samaritans that city believed him for the saying the woman, which testified, told all that ever did. they besought jesus that would tarry with them and abode there two days. the complete sayings jesus, arthur hinds, sacred texts.com christ cana cures nobleman's son capernaum a.d. 27. age 30. galilee cana john 53.